# The Cyrun Pantheon

Real mythology is seriously messed up and I was trying to capture that flavor when I created the pantheon of the Cyrun people. I started with Bast and Bastet and got creative from there. In Egyptian mythology, Bast was a lion-headed warrior goddess, but as the priesthood became more male dominated, they recast Bast as Bastet, a hearth goddess with the head of a domestic cat.

I ran with this and created Blodwedd/Blodwen - a goddess who was originally worshiped by berserkers who would call on her to bring on their berserkergang, but is captured by Brennis, the king of the gods, forced to marry him and becomes the goddess of wives and the hearth. Except that Brennus, being the king, is carrying on with Carys, the goddess of love. Blodwen discovers his treachery and, for revenge, turns Carys into a white hare and releases her ahead of her husband's great hunt. The king rides the love goddess down, fires an arrow into her, and she transforms back into the slain goddess.

As punishment, Brennus skins Carys and forces Blodwen to wear the skin as a sign of her guilt. Blodwen instead discovered that Carys's ability to beguile men and gods alike is actually resident in her skin and uses that ability to cuckhold Brennus repeatedly, knowing Brennus will murder every man she's with. She starts with commoners, works her way up to kings, and eventually other gods. Every time Brennus kills someone powerful, he loses worshipers and soon, the other gods go to war against him and cast him down. He goes to the underworld where he takes over and "rescues" Carys from her fate.

When the smoke clears, Cadeyrn formerly the god of war, is now king of the gods. Blodwen the Vengeful is the goddess of wronged women (or, as my players eloquently put it, "the goddess of crazy bitches.") Brennus is now the god of the underworld. And Carys is both the death goddess and the goddess of love. In addition to her regular priesthood which is responsible for weddings and fertility rites, she has the Exquisite Sisterhood - women who have died young and beautiful and been resurrected in her name to serve.

One of the funny things about this is that I've only ever used the Cyrun as NPCs - a cross between the Welsh and Vikings. Even so, my PCs were terrified of the Exquisite Sisterhood and would rather fight a lich riding a beholder held up by two mind flayers than deal with them.
